---
layout: post
title: "I love you infosec"
description: "A love/hate glimpse of past and future"
thumb_image: "wiblogo.jpg"
tags: [infosec,community]
---

I used to like to push buttons.  In the late 80s I would stand, barely more than a toddler, and watch the taller kids push the 2 buttons and joystick of an arcade machine, asking a parent to lift me so I could press the button.  I enjoyed the tactile feel of it, and the feel of the reaction that happened on the screen.  

It scratched some itch in my mind I didn't even understand yet.  I pressed, and the 16-bit dwarven character from "Golden Axe" swung his axe.  Gratification.  That was it.  I was hooked.  I would spend the rest of my days studying, searching, breaking, and building more interesting buttons to push.  Soon buttons I pushed made other devices somewhere else do things.  

Somewhere along the line, the world went and got itself so connected that too many button pushers pushed buttons and humans had made rocks think faster than ever before, doing all sorts of new automated magic.  Suddenly, an industry appeared where there had been none.  

Sadly, so many employers prevent their bright and talented people from publishing their security research for fear of backlash from malicious actors or organizations who dislike having such a crudely pointed finger hold them accountable.  I feel the industry has become complicated by corporate greed and sometimes, by ego-centric individuals who would rather step on the backs of their peers than move the industry forward in ways that better protect their fellow humans: `toxicity`.

I love you, infosec.  I just hate you, too.

Call me old school, but some things really were better in analog.  "Digital is just points on an analog curve" as it was once said to me.  Like most things in life, it is simply a matter of brand and degree.

{% include image.html path="toxicity/Golden_Axe.jpg" path-detail="toxicity/Golden_Axe2x.jpg" alt="Golden Axe" %}

How old school is old school?  It is quite unremarkable for anyone into infosec from my time, but I can tell you whether or not a modem supports 56k v.9x by the sounds it makes when it successfully dials into an access point.  Its actually quite obvious and simple once you've heard it a single time but, I would argue all it shows about me is my age.  "The beauty of the baud" was what [the hacker manifesto](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Hacker_Manifesto) called it.  Now we all cringe at the sound of an analog connection adapting to emulate a digital one.  But that is just where we have come.  Our lives have been steadily more digitized since then.

We have computers in everything; in our pockets, cars, peripherals, lightbulbs, cameras, kitchen gadgets, and more.  [Someone even hacked a pregnancy test to play doom.](https://www.popularmechanics.com/science/a33957256/this-programmer-figured-out-how-to-play-doom-on-a-pregnancy-test/)  Indeed, myself and my fellow contributors here at WIBSEC try to think of ourselves as clever and relentless tinkerers with an interdisciplinary love and respect for the art and the science that is hacking.  

Many of us were "forged in the fire" of actual information warfare from many years in the digital underground.  Some of us simply had no other means through which to research or learn things that universities now teach in advanced degree programs.  Some of us witnessed the invention of distributed DoS and syn scanning, saw the rise of napster and its fall with DMCA, and prank called hackers the average person now reads about in the news.  We sifted through the tradecraft and the games of cat versus cat to the point that all of the talented people we knew and learned along-side either joined the industry or went to prison...and then joined the industry.

[Arthur C. Clarke established three rules of technology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clarke%27s_three_laws):

>1. When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right. When he states that something is impossible, he is very probably wrong.
 2. The only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them into the impossible.
 3. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.

We are a collection of infosec geeks; amatures and professionals, who wanted an employer-agnostic platform on which to publish our security tutorials, opinions, and research as we see fit.

This blog purports to do nothing more than that, but nothing less.


I'll start.  

Somewhere around 2000 or so, I decided to add knowledge of C to my linux skillset.  As an autodidact, I found my ciriculum best defined by  coming up with small projects and then forcing myself to add features or enhancements.  Around this time, I'd taken up identifying and reducing the number of `setuid()` binaries on newly installed systems of mine.  I was able to achieve this with the command `find / -perm +4000` but desired to understand how the standard C library and OS actually did this.  In the process I learned a decent amount of things, despite some terrible coding habits.  I give you my craptacular and slow, `suidscan.c`:

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
#include <dirent.h>
#include <errno.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

#define MAX_PATH_SIZE 4096

void errordeath( const char* errmsg )
{
        if ( !errno && !errmsg )
                fprintf(stderr, "doh!\n" );
        if ( errno && !errmsg )
                fprintf( stderr, "error: %s %d: %s\n", __FILE__, __LINE__, strerror( errno ) );
        if ( errmsg && !errno )
                fprintf( stderr, "error: %s %d: %s\n", __FILE__, __LINE__, errmsg );
        exit(-1);
}

int checkfstat( const char* fn )
{
        struct stat st;
        if( !lstat( fn , &st ))
        {
                switch (st.st_mode & S_IFMT) {
                        case S_IFBLK:  break; /* block device */
                        case S_IFCHR:  break; /* char device */
                        case S_IFDIR:  return 1; /* directory */
                        case S_IFIFO:  break; /* FIFO device */
                        case S_IFLNK:  break;
                        case S_IFREG:  if ( st.st_mode & S_ISUID ) printf("%s\n", fn );  break; /* regular file */
                        case S_IFSOCK: break; /* socket */
                        default:       break;
                }

        }
        return 0;
}

int chkignore( const char* dn, const char** ignorelist )
{
        int i=0;
        struct stat st;
        if ( !dn || !ignorelist || stat(dn, &st) )
                return -1;
        while ( ignorelist[i] )
        {
                if ( !strcmp( dn, ignorelist[i] ) )
                        return 1;
                i++;
        }
        return 0;
}

int rlistdir( const char* dir )
{
        DIR* initdir = opendir( dir );
        if ( initdir )
        {
                struct dirent* workdir = readdir( initdir );
                const static char* ignore[] = { ".", ".." };
                char out[MAX_PATH_SIZE];
                int wdlen=0, dnamelen=0;
                while ( workdir )
                {
                        if ( chkignore( workdir->d_name, ignore ) > 0 )
                        {
                                /* skip directories on the ignore list */
                                workdir = readdir( initdir );
                                continue;
                        }
                        wdlen = strlen(dir);
                        dnamelen = strlen( workdir->d_name );
                        if ( ( wdlen + dnamelen + 1 ) < MAX_PATH_SIZE )
                        {
                                /* fix path for trailing slash */
                                strncat( out, dir, wdlen );
                                if ( dir[wdlen-1] == '/' )
                                {
                                        strncat( out+wdlen, workdir->d_name, dnamelen );
                                }
                                else
                                {
                                        strncat( out+wdlen, "/", 1 );
                                        strncat( out+wdlen+1, workdir->d_name, dnamelen );
                                }
                                /* check file setuid bit and scan subdirectories recursively */
                                if ( checkfstat(out) > 0 )
                                {
                                        rlistdir( out );
                                }
                                memset( out, 0, MAX_PATH_SIZE );
                        }
                        else
                        {
                                errordeath("overflow while storing path! recompile with proper MAX_PATH_SIZE");
                        }
                        wdlen=0;
                        dnamelen=0;
                        memset( out, 0, MAX_PATH_SIZE );
                        workdir = readdir( initdir );
                }
                closedir( initdir );
                return 0;
        }
        else return -1;
}
int main( int argc, char *argv[] )
{
        if ( ( rlistdir("/") ) )
        {
                errordeath(NULL);
        }
        return 0;
}

{% endhighlight c %}

Hopefully, this will be the beginning of many fun and interesting posts to come.

-sz
